\documentclass[11pt]{article}
\usepackage[left=1.75in, right=1.75in, top=1.25in, bottom=1.25in]{geometry}
\geometry{letterpaper}
\usepackage{graphicx}
%\usepackage{xyling}
%\usepackage{tipa}
%\usepackage{exaccent}
%\usepackage{txfonts}
%\usepackage{pxfonts}
\usepackage{enumitem}
%\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{epstopdf}
\usepackage{setspace}
\usepackage{natbib}
\setcitestyle{aysep={}}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage{url}
\synctex=1

\DeclareSymbolFont{symbolsC}{U}{txsyc}{m}{n}
\DeclareMathSymbol{\strictif}{\mathrel}{symbolsC}{74}
\DeclareMathSymbol{\boxright}{\mathrel}{symbolsC}{128}		

\newenvironment{squote}{%
       \begin{spacing}{1}
       \begin{list}{}{%
       \setlength{\labelwidth}{0pt}%
       \rightmargin\leftmargin%
       }
       \item\relax
       }{%
       \end{list}%
       \end{spacing}
}

\title{The dump}
\author{Alexander A. Dunn}
\begin{document}
\maketitle
\begin{spacing}{1}


\section{Other answers that are false}
This section will mostly involve me registering agreement with
Markosian on the insufficiency of other proposed answers to the
SCQ. For example:
\begin{description}
	\item[Fastenation] Necessarily, for any $x$s, there is an
          object composed of the $x$s iff the $x$s are fastened
          together.~\citep[223]{markosian1998a}
\end{description}
No general notion of `fasten' will make this plausible. ``Suppose that
van Inwagen and I shake hands, and suppose that just as we do so, our
hands becomes paralyzed [or super-glued together], so that we cannot
pull them apart. Then, according to Fastenation, there is a new
composite object in the
world''~\citep[224]{markosian1998a}.\footnote{This is based on an
  example of van Inwagen's~(\citeyear[57--58]{inwagen1995}.} But we do
not recognize van Inwagen and Markosian as composing an object; `van
Mark', thankfully, does not emerge. Fastenation is not then
sufficient. Nor is it necessary; I can create a house of cards without
fastening any of them together.

Another approach is this:
\begin{description}
	\item[The Serial Response] The correct answer to the SCQ is an
          instance of this schema: There is an object composed of the
          $x$s iff {\em either} the $x$s are F1s and related by R1,
          {\em or} the $x$s are F2s and are related by R2, {\em
            or}\,\ldots\,the $x$s are Fns and are related by
          Rn.~\citep[230]{markosian1998a}
\end{description}
But seeing as we have not {\em one} plausible relation between objects
that is necessary and sufficient for composition, it seems unlikely
that we can find a series of them, limited in scope though they may
be. (For what are the necessary and sufficient conditions for a deck
of cards composing a house of cards?)

\section{Arbitrariness}
Where does this leave us? [stuff about realism]

\hline

\section{Now what?}
We have come to the following conclusions:
\begin{enumerate}
	\item Ordinary things (tables, chairs, people, \&c.) exist,
          and we communicate intelligibly about them.  Therefore, most
          versions of nihilism are false.
	\item Because we communicate intelligibly about ordinary
          things, we reject versions of universalism that entail a
          profusion of tables where we assume a single table to be.
	\item Van Inwagen's paraphrasing strategy could not coherently
          show that a literally true proposition expressed by `There
          are chairs\,\ldots ' does not entail that there are chairs.
          He cannot appeal to loose truth until he has given
          non-circular definitions of `chair' and `chairwise'.
	\item No such definition seems to be forthcoming.
\end{enumerate}

Although the theories presented by Unger and van Inwagen are
unsatisfactory, the problems they are meant to solve do require some
answer.  Despite the fact that we communicate perfectly well with
terms like `chair' and `person', it is difficult to spell out exactly
what it is that we use these terms to refer to.  A chair may lose some
of its matter (we might sand it down) or gain more matter (we might
paint it), yet we generally assume that the same chair endures the
change.  We shed cells constantly, but it would be overhasty to
conclude that we do not persist through time, because we are not
continuously constituted out the very same matter.  When we refer to
these chairs and people, then, it seems that the things we are
referring to are not simply the particles that make them up.  But then
what are they?

\hline

\section{Unger's intolerance}
\noindent Peter Unger denies that chairs exist.  (It is possible that
he has since recanted.)  Unger claims that this is a consequence of
the incoherency of the term `chair'.  As he argues, `chair' is an
incoherent term; being incoherent, he says, it cannot have any
application to things in the world; therefore he concludes that there
are no chairs.

The strength of Unger's argument for the incoherency of `chair' rests
on two things: the sorites paradox and the `problem of the many'.

\subsection{Sorites paradoxes}
A typical case of a sorites paradox involves some object
(paradigmatically, a heap of sand) from which a minute quantity of
matter is removed.  If we are inclined to suppose that the initial
quantity of matter (in this case, sand) was really a heap, then the
removal of a single grain of sand should leave the heap intact.  At
least on an intuitive level, it seems false that the removal of a
single grain of sand could {\em ever} transform a heap to something
less than a heap.  The heap will of course be a slightly smaller heap,
but it seems that it must be a heap nonetheless.

Once we have conceded these two points, however, we have unwittingly
put our foot in it.  For if the removal of a grain of sand {\em never}
transforms a heap into a non-heap, then by repeatedly removing single
grains of sand, we will eventually find ourselves with a heap of sand
that consists of absolutely no sand at all!

Unger follows this line of reasoning with respect to not only chairs,
but stones as well:

\begin{squote}
Consider a stone, consisting of a certain finite number of atoms.  If
we or some physical process should remove one atom, without
replacement, then there is left that number minus one, presumably
constituting a stone still\,\ldots\,after another atom is removed,
there is that original number minus two; so far, so good.  But after
that certain number has been removed, in similar stepwise fashion,
there are no atoms at all in the situation, while we must still be
supposing that there is a stone there.  But as we have already agreed,
if there is a stone present, then there must be some atoms\,\ldots\,I
suggest that any adequate response to this contradiction must
include\,\ldots\,the denial of the existence of even a single
stone.~\citep[121--122]{unger1979}
\end{squote}

Unger generalizes this argument and denies the existence of all
``ordinary things''.  An object that is generally thought to endure
minuscule losses of matter is therefore banished.

\subsection{The problem of the many}
Here we find a rather similar method.  A cloud is, presumably,
composed of molecules.

\hline

First, however, something must be said as to why we need to `get out'
in the first place.  Why not conclude with Unger that there just
aren't any chairs?

\subsection{Unger's skeptical solution}
Unger's objective, in his series of papers on ordinary things, is to
show that there are no chairs, tables, etc.  He therefore claims that
the sorites paradox is not a paradox at all; it simply shows that
there are no chairs et.\ al.:



\subsection{Sources of belief}
(Integrate old material)

\begin{squote}
Concerning words and kinds, now, we might say this.  First, we might
say that it is in connection with \emph{semantics} that our reasonings have
what are their most obvious implications and, second, that their most
obvious semantic implications concern certain \emph{sortal nouns}, namely,
those which purport to denote ordinary things.  Thus, it appears quite
obvious to us now that there will be no application to things for such
nouns as `stone' and `rock', `twig' and `log', `planet' and `sun',
`mountain' and `lake', `sweater' and `cardigan', `telescope' and
`microscope', and so on, and so forth.  Simple positive sentences
containing these terms will never, given their current meanings,
express anything true, correct, accurate, etc., or even anything which
is anywhere close to being any of those things
(\citeyear[148]{unger1979}).
\end{squote}

This seems simply bizarre.  On what grounds, then, do parents correct
their children with respect to their use of ordinary terms?  Are they
compelled by some irrational force to consider certain utterances
correct and others incorrect?  Unger's view is extremely implausible,
and it becomes more so when we consider color words.  As mentioned
above, Crispin Wright uses `red' as a example of a vague term.  It is,
according to the governing view, semantically incoherent in just the
same way that ordinary terms like `chair' and `table' are.  Unger does
not address color words, but it seems that he would be compelled to
treat them as incoherent.  He would have to conclude that, as `red' is
incoherent, it has no application; he would have to say that there are
no red things, and that no expressions of propositions like ``that is
red'' could ever express anything correct or accurate, let alone true.
But what brings us to consider the problem of vagueness with regard to
terms like `red' is that they \emph{do} seem to be applied in correct
and incorrect ways.  It seemed correct to apply `red' to the leftmost
color patch and incorrect to apply it to the rightmost one.  The
difficulties that arise in the middle of the spectrum are only
troubling \emph{because} they conflict with the obvious correctness of
the application (or withholding) of `red' at the edge of the spectrum.
The sorites paradox might make us doubt whether our application of
certain terms is consistent, but it should not convince us that we do
not ever apply the terms \emph{correctly}:

\begin{squote}
It is, to begin with, unclear how far our use of e.g. the vocabulary
  of colours \emph{is} consistent.  The descriptions given of awkward cases
  may vary from occasion to occasion.  Besides that, the notion of
  using a predicate consistently would appear to require some
  objective criteria for variation in relevant respects among items to
  be described in terms of it; but what is distinctive about
  observational predicates is exactly the lack of such criteria.  So
  it would be unwise to lean too heavily, as though it were a matter
  of hard fact, upon the consistency of our employment of colour
  predicates.  What, however, may be depended upon is that our use of
  these predicates is largely \emph{successful}; the expectations which we
  form on the basis of others' ascriptions of colour are not usually
  disappointed.  Agreement is generally possible about how colours are
  to be described; and this, of course, is equivalent to saying that
  others \emph{seem} to use colour predicates in a largely consistent way
  \citep[361]{wright1975}.
\end{squote}

Just as Unger cannot deny that we believe there to be chairs, so he
cannot deny that there is a pattern of use for ordinary terms such
that some uses are correct and others incorrect.

\section{van Inwagen's presentation of the problem of the many}
\begin{squote}
Assume I exist.  Then certain simples compose me.  Call them `M'.
Now, a single simple is a negligible item indeed.  Let $x$ be one of
these negligible parts of me---one that is somewhere in my right arm,
say.  Now consider the simples that compose me {\em other than} $x$
(`M -- $x$').  Since $x$ is so very negligible, M -- $x$ {\em could}
[my emphasis] compose a human being just as well as M could.  We may
say that M and M -- $x$ are ``equally well suited'' to compose human
beings.  And, of course, for {\em any} simple $y$, ``M -- $y$ will be
as well suited to compose a human being as M are.  Moreover, it would
be surprising indeed if there were not a simple $z$ such that ``M +
$z$'' were as well suited to compose a human being as M are.  It
would, in fact (if I may once more use this phrase), be intolerably
arbitrary to say that M composed a human being although M -- $x$ {\em
  didn't} [my emphasis] and M -- $y$ {\em didn't} [my emphasis] and M
+ $z$ {\em didn't} [my emphasis].  Suppose, therefore, that M -- $x$
et al.\ {\em do} [my emphasis] compose human
beings~(\citeyear[215]{inwagen1995}).
\end{squote}

I think this formulation is problematic.  We are supposing that M does
compose a human being.  But it does not immediately follow from this
that M -- $x$ also composes a human being.  As I have pointed out with
italics, there is a slide from the claim that M -- $x$ {\em could}
compose a human being to the claim that M -- $x$ {\em does} compose a
human being.  As an analogy, take a house of blocks.  Suppose that the
blocks do compose the house.  Is there also something composed by the
blocks minus one? There {\em could} be; but intuitively, there would
be only if that one block were removed.  Then we would have a house
with a missing roof.  But we do not obviously have that second thing
already, without having removed the block.

Van Inwagen understands there to be a number of additional premises
required for this argument.  He formulates them thus:
\begin{enumerate}
	\item In every situation of which we should ordinarily say
          that it contained just one man, there are many sets of
          simples whose members are as suitably arranged to compose
          men as any simples could be.  \label{many1}
	\item The members of each of these sets compose
          something.  \label{many2}
	\item Each of these ``somethings'' is a man, provided there
          are any men at all.  \label{many3}
	\item If I exist, there is a
          man~(\citeyear[216]{inwagen1995}).  \label{many4}
\end{enumerate}
I think only~\ref{many4} is uncontroversially true.  There are many
difficult questions raised by~\ref{many2}, and I'm not sure how to
answer them.  I'm quite sure, however, that the first and third
premises are false.  These two are closely related, so we'll examine
them together.



\subsection{Chair(wise)}
We are demanding that van Inwagen give us definitions of `chairwise'
and `chair' that are not definitions in terms of each other.  Van
Inwagen claims to be able to do this; responding to criticism by Jay
Rosenberg, he says that ``it is easy to see how to define `chairwise'
in terms of `chair' without supposing that there are any chairs.  Let
a ``chair'' be defined as an object that has the properties $C_{1},
C_{2},\,\dots\,C_{n}$''~(\citeyear[719]{inwagen1993b}).  In order for
the definitions to be non-circular, these properties must not include
things like `is a chair', `is shaped chairwise', etc.

I am dubious that van Inwagen can provide us with necessary and
sufficient property-list definitions of chair and chairwise that are
not circular.  And I am not alone in my skepticism:


Without a proposal as to how we can capture all these types of chairs
under an exclusive definition (leaving none out and bringing nothing
else in), I suggest that `chair' has no necessary and sufficient
property-list definition; it is a `family resemblance'-type concept.
We can say well enough whether a given object is a chair or not, but
this is not because it has all and only those properties that belong
to chairs.  [It is because\,\ldots ?]

\subsection{Van Inwagen's notion of parthood}
\label{van-part}
Van Inwagen defines his technical notion of composition (see section
\ref{scq}) in terms of a largely intuitive notion of parthood.  Van
Inwagen's interest, however, is restricted to `material' objects
(objects made exclusively of quarks and protons, or whatever the basic
atoms of the physical world turn out to be).  While he goes on to use
`part' only in reference to material objects, he recognizes that the
term has much wider application:

\begin{squote}
Parthood will occupy a central place in the present study of material
objects.  It is therefore worth noting that the word `part' is applied
to many things besides material objects.  We have already noted that
submicroscopic objects like quarks and protons are at least not clear
cases of material objects; nevertheless, every material object would
seem pretty clearly to have quarks and protons as \emph{parts}, and,
it would seem, in exactly the same sense of \emph{part} as that in
which a paradigmatic material object might have another paradigmatic
material object as a part.  A ``part,'' therefore, need not be a thing
that is clearly a material object.  Moreover, the word `part' is
applied to things that are clearly \emph{not} material objects---or at
least it is on the assumption that these things really exist and that
apparent reference to them is not a mere manner of speaking.  A stanza
is a part of a poem; Botvinnik was in trouble for part of the game;
the part of the curve that lies below the x-axis contains two minima;
parts of his story are hard to believe\,\ldots\,such examples can be
multiplied indefinitely.  Does this word `part' mean the same thing
when we speak of parts of cats, parts of poems, parts of games, parts
of curves, and parts of stories \citeyearpar[18--19]{inwagen1995}?
\end{squote} 

Van Inwagen suggests that `part' does have a number of different
meanings.  Later he says that ``there is one relation called
`parthood' whose field comprises material objects\,\ldots\,another
relation called `parthood' defined on events, another still defined on
stories, yet another defined on curves, and so on''
\citeyearpar[19]{inwagen1995}.

This may very well be, but what is the similarity between these
relations?  The parthood relation in classical mereology is
well-defined, as is the membership relation in set theory.  But there
is no equally well-defined relation for event parthood, or poem parthood.

However, Kit Fine has proposed a theory of parthood that takes
seriously the possibility that there are a plurality of different
parthood relations, and has the resources to define numerous parthood
relations.  The parthood relation for poems may be given as rigorous a
treatment as the parthood relation for sets.
\end{spacing}
\end{document}

%%%%%

\section{Third theory: tensed mereology}
\label{hovda}
Paul Hovda has proposed an amended version of classical mereology that
presupposes neither eternalism nor presentism, and that allows for
mereological sums to change their parts over time.  (In his paper
``Tensed mereology'' \citeyearpar{hovda2011} he in fact offers three
versions of his theory; I will focus on the first formulation.)

{\em Tensed mereology} is similar to Fine's theory of embodiments in
at least one important way.  According to both theories, some relation
or property is required to specify when and where a sum of some things
exist.  Fine's example was of a bunch of flowers; the flowers compose
the bunch when and only when the relation of being bunched holds of
them.

Hovda uses the term `condition' to cover both relations and
properties:

\begin{squote}
We will want a ``condition'' to be an open sentence that may have more
than one free variable, \emph{together with a specification of a
  target variable}. For example, we will want to consider
``conditions'' like ``$y$ loves $x$'', with ``$x$'' as target.  This
is because we want to consider, in effect, for each object that might
be a value of the variable ``$y$'', the property of being a thing
loved by that object.  The point of this may be brought out by an
example.  We want as an instance of the plenitude principle, roughly
this: that for every $y$, if $y$ loves at least one thing, then there
is a thing $b$ such that $b$ is a fusion of the condition (with
respect to $x$) ``$y$ loves $x$'' (i.e., a fusion of the condition of
being loved by $y$) \citeyearpar[??n2]{hovda2011}.
\end{squote}

With this notion in mind, Hovda provides two kinds of fusions (sums) to
replace classical mereological fusions (sums):

\begin{description}
  \item[Synchronic fusion] An object $b$ is a ``synchronic fusion'' of
    a condition iff: both (1) every $x$ that meets the condition is
    part of $b$; and (2) every part of $b$ overlaps something that
    meets the condition.
  \item[Diachronic fusion] An object $b$ is a ``diachronic fusion'' of
    a condition iff: it is always the case that $b$ synchronically
    fuses the condition \citeyearpar[??]{hovda2011}.
\end{description}

Like Fine, Hovda takes composition to be unrestricted: ``every
suitable condition has a diachronic fusion (where a condition is
suitable iff it is not always empty; i.e., it is suitable iff at some
time, at least one thing satisfies it)'' \citeyearpar[??]{hovda2011}.
Not only does every suitable condition have a diachronic fusion, but
``it is always the case that every suitable condition has a diachronic
fusion'' \citeyearpar[??]{hovda2011}.

\subsection{Synchronic fusions: a tentative gloss}
\label{synch}
Fine's theory of embodiments included a postulate that the relation or
property that holds of the other parts of a thing is itself a part of
thing.  The sums produced by synchronic and diachronic fusions, on the
other hand, do not have the condition as a part.  This is an advantage
of the theory of tensed mereology.  However, if conditions are not
parts of things, then can we distinguish fusions of different
conditions if those conditions apply to the same things?  For example,
when Tibbles the cat is standing up, the synchronic fusion of the
condition of being Tibbles---call this $x$---and synchronic fusion of
the condition of being Tibbles standing up---call this $y$---will
apply to the same things.  It appears, then, that $x$ and $y$ share
all the same parts.  This may not seem troubling initially, but there
is a common assumption in mereology to the effect that if everything
that overlaps one thing overlaps another thing, then the first thing
is part of the second.  This is formalized as {\em strong
  supplementation}:

\begin{displaymath}
\forall x \forall y ( \forall z ( z \circ x \rightarrow z \circ y )
\rightarrow x \leq y )
\end{displaymath}
(Here `$x \circ y$' means `$x$ overlaps $y$' and `$x \leq y$' means
`$x$ is part of $y$'.)

Since everything that overlaps $x$ overlaps $y$ (they share all thier
parts), $x$ is a part of $y$.  And since everything that overlaps $y$
overlaps $x$, $y$ is a part of $x$.  Another common assumption is that
if two things are parts of each other, it follows that they are really
the {\em same thing}; this is formalized as {\em anti-symmetry}:

\begin{displaymath}
\forall x \forall y ( ( x \leq y \wedge y \leq x ) \rightarrow x = y )
\end{displaymath}

If we adopt both these assumptions, then $x$ is the fusion of the
condition of being Tibbles {\em and} the fusion of the condition of
being Tibbles standing up (as is $y$, since $x = y$).

When discussing in section \ref{change} whether or not mereological
sums (in the classical sense) can change their parts, I made two
assumptions.  First, I assumed that if at some time $t$ there is a sum
of some things $A$ and $B$, then if at any other time $t^{\prime}$
there is a sum of those same things $A$ and $B$, {\em then} the sum of
$A$ and $B$ at $t$ is identical to the sum of $A$ and $B$ at
$t^{\prime}$.  Second, I assumed universalism; that for any (physical)
things, there is something composed of them.

If these two assumptions are true of synchronic fusions, then it
follows that synchronic fusions, like classical mereological sums,
cannot change their parts.  (The assumptions may require a slight
rewording.  Replace `sum' with `synchronic fusion' and rewrite the
second assumption to read ``for any condition at any time, there is a
synchronic fusion of that condition at that time''.)

To see why this is so, suppose that $x$ is the synchronic fusion of
the condition of being Tibbles at $t_1$.  Now suppose that, also at
$t_2$, $y$ is the synchronic fusion of the condition of being all of
Tibbles except for his whiskers.  Since $x$ and $y$ have different
parts, they are not the same thing ($x \neq y$).

Now imagine that at some later time $t_2$, Tibbles' whiskers fall out.
Let us use `$z$' to designate the synchronic fusion of the condition
of being Tibbles at $t_2$.  $z$ does not include Tibbles' whiskers;
the whiskers are no longer parts of Tibbles.  But notice that there is
also at $t_2$ the synchronic fusion of the condition of being all of
Tibbles except for his whiskers; call that `$w$'.  Now we can see that
$z$ and $w$ have all the same parts, and are therefore identical; $z =
w$.  Given our first assumption, $z$ ($= w$) is the same thing as $y$;
$z = w = y$.  Since $y \neq x$, the synchronic fusion of the condition
of being Tibbles at $t_1$ is {\em not} the synchronic fusion of the
condition of being Tibbles at $t_2$.  The object $x$ that {\em was}
the synchronic fusion of the condition of being Tibbles at $t_1$ is
now a scattered object, composed of Tibbles and the remains of his
whiskers.

However, if synchronic fusions cannot change their parts, then neither
can diachronic fusions.  For according to Hovda's definition, a thing
$b$ is a diachronic fusion of some condition just in case ``it is
always the case that $b$ synchronically fuses the condition''
\citeyearpar[??]{hovda2011}.  The theory of tensed mereology, however,
was developed in part to explain how things {\em can} change their
parts.  One of the assumptions made above, therfore, must be
abandoned.

\subsection{Diachronic fusions}
\label{diach}
Since diachronic fusions can change their parts over time, one of the
assumptions made above must be withdrawn.  Hovda chooses to deny {\em
  anti-symmetry}, the principle that if two things are parts of each
other, then they are really the same thing:

\begin{squote}
Instead of saying that it is always true that any mutual parts are
identical, [we] will say, roughly, that any things that are always
mutual parts are identical \citep[??]{hovda2011}.
\end{squote}

Suppose now that $b$ is the diachronic fusion of the condition of
being Tibbles.  In other words, it is always the case that $b$
synchronically fuses the condition of being Tibbles.  At all times
during which something has the condition of being Tibbles, $b$ is that
thing.  Likewise, suppose that $c$ is the diachronic fusion of the
condition of being all of Tibbles except for his whiskers.  It is
always the case that $c$ synchronically fuses the condition of being
all of Tibbles except for his whiskers.  At all times during which
something has the condition of being all of Tibbles except for his
whiskers, $c$ is that thing.  When Tibbles loses his whiskers at
$t_2$, $b$ and $c$ will share all their parts, and so by strong
supplementation they will be parts of each other, but it is not {\em
  always} the case that they are parts of each other.  By restricting
anti-symmetry to things that are {\em always} parts of each other, we
avoid the conclusion that $b = c$.

%% But there is one further wrinkle.  Above I claimed that the synchronic
%% fusion of the condition of being Tibbles at $t_1$ (when he has his
%% whiskers) was not identical with the synchronic fusion of the
%% condition of being Tibbles at $t_2$.  That claim followed from our
%% assumption that if there exists a fusion of some things at one time
%% and if there exists a fusion of the same things at another time, then
%% the two fusions are really the same fusion.

%% But here we are claiming the opposite.  If $b$ is the diachronic
%% fusion of the condition of being Tibbles, then at $t_1$, $b$ is
%% composed of Tibbles (including his whiskers) and at $t_2$, $b$ is
%% composed of Tibbles (excluding his whiskers).  But if $c$ is the
%% diachronic fusion of the condition of being all of Tibbles except for
%% his whiskers, then at $t_1$, $c$ is composed of Tibbles (excluding his
%% whiskers) and at $t_2$, $c$ is still composed of Tibbles (excluding
%% his whiskers).

%% \subsection{Do synchronic fusions persist over time?  How?}
%% \label{synch-p}

By rejecting strict anti-symmetry in favor of the assumption that
things that {\em always} have the same parts are identical, it is
possible for diachronic fusions to change parts.  Any two diachronic
fusions that always have the same parts (are always both composed of
the same synchronic fusions) are really the same, but two diachronic
fusions that are only sometimes composed of the same synchronic
fusions are not the same.

Since a diachronic fusion is defined as something that {\em always}
fuses some particular condition, it is a straightforward question as
to whether two diachronic fusions are really the same.  But the
definition of a {\em synchronic fusion} does not contain any temporal
term like `always'.  Recall that a thing is a synchronic fusion of
some condition just in case ``both (1) every [$u$] that meets the
condition is part of [$v$]; and (2) every part of [$v$] overlaps
something that meets the condition'' \citeyearpar[??]{hovda2011}.
Above we supposed that $z$ and $w$ were synchronic fusions at $t_2$
that shared all the same parts (Tibbles without whiskers).  The
objects $z$ and $w$ currently share the same parts, and so are parts
of each other, but do $z$ and $w$ {\em always} share the same parts?

I think they must.  At $t_2$, they are identical.  This is because at
$t_2$ objects $b$ and $c$ are composed of the same parts; if they were
not, we would not have had to reject anti-symmetry.  Now if two things
are {\em ever} identical, they are {\em always} identical; there is no
such thing as temporary identity.  Therefore $z$ and $w$ are always
identical, and so therefore they always share the same parts.

I believe it follows that synchronic fusions like $z$ exist only
momentarily.  

%% A discouraging analogy might be drawn with classical mereology.  The
%% definitions of mereology that I quoted in section \ref{tech} used
%% plural quantifiers like ``the $x$s''.  But they are often formulated
%% using sets instead.  For example, instead of saying ``$y$ is composed
%% of the $x$s'', we can say ``$y$ fuses $S$'', where $S$ is a set whose
%% members are all and only the $x$s.  When classical mereology is given
%% this set-theoretic formulation, it is assumed that for every set,
%% there is one and only one thing that fuses that set.

\subsection{Problems with the third theory}
\label{problems2}
Hovda's tensed mereology avoids the conclusion that conditions or
relations are parts of things, but like Fine's theory of embodiments,
it produces a huge number of things.

%%%%%%

Fortunately, however, the theory does {\em not} produce co-located (or
even overlapping) thinkers.  One might object that the object that
fuses the condition of being a cat surely thinks.  How, then can the
object that fuses the condition of being a sitting cat {\em not}
think?  Like Fine in \ref{problems1}, Hovda can reply that since the
fusion of the condition of being a sitting cat is not the kind of
thing that can think, since it ceases to exist whenever the cat stands
up, then re-emerges when the cat sits down.  And since there are no
diachronic fusions that always share the same parts, the there can be
no thinkers co-located with the cat.

\subsection{Onward}
\label{hovda-o}
These qualms by no means show that these theories are wrong.  But I
would prefer a theory that does not postulate such a bizarre
plurality.  
