\documentclass[11pt]{article}
\usepackage{standalone} \newif\ifstandlone \standalonetrue
\usepackage[left=1.75in, right=1.75in, top=1.25in, bottom=1.25in]{geometry}
\geometry{letterpaper}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{enumitem}
\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{epstopdf}
\usepackage{verbatim}
\usepackage{setspace}
\usepackage{natbib}
\setcitestyle{aysep={}}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage{url}
\synctex=1

\DeclareSymbolFont{symbolsC}{U}{txsyc}{m}{n}
\DeclareMathSymbol{\strictif}{\mathrel}{symbolsC}{74}
\DeclareMathSymbol{\boxright}{\mathrel}{symbolsC}{128}

\newenvironment{squote}{%
\begin{spacing}{1}
\begin{list}{}{%
\setlength{\labelwidth}{0pt}%
\rightmargin\leftmargin%
}
\item\relax
}{%
\end{list}%
\end{spacing}
}

\title{Essentialism}
\author{Alexander A. Dunn}
\begin{document}
\ifstandalone
\maketitle
\begin{spacing}{1.5}
\fi

\label{essential}

In section \ref{parts} I presented three different theories that
modified classical mereology.  These modification were made to
explain, among other things, how objects change their parts over time
and how co-located objects (like the statue and the lump) have
different properties.  But each of these theories require us to posit
an extraordinary plurality of co-located objects.  A theory that posits
co-located people is, I think, clearly false, but any theory that
entails the existence of a plurality of overlapping objects is at
least intuitively objectionable.

In this section, therefore, I will attempt to sketch an {\em
  essentialist} theory of things.  This theory will allow us to reject
the `plurality thesis'---that there are pluralities of co-located
objects---but it will have problems of its own.  The most glaring is
the consequence that, strictly speaking, things don't change their
parts.

In section \ref{problem3} I argued that using Fine's theory of
composition operators to account for groups like the Supreme Court led
to a plurality of different {\em kinds} of things rather than a
plurality of a single kind of group.  I suggested that this was a
drawback of the theory, and that we should re-examine the idea that
groups like the Supreme Court are actually identical with sets.

\section{Re-examining the set identity thesis}
\label{set-id}
The primary motivation cited in section \ref{why-group} for positing
groups was the fact that the Supreme Court changes its members over
time.  For example, both of the following sentences are true:

\begin{enumerate}[label=(\arabic*)]
  \item The Supreme Court ruled on Roe vs.\ Wade in 1973. \label{roe1}

  \item The set of justices now serving as Supreme Court Justices did
    not rule on Roe vs.\ Wade in 1973
    \citep[135]{uzquiano2004a}. \label{roe2}
\end{enumerate}

One way to accommodate these facts is to ``insist that the Supreme
Court is a set, but to abandon the assumption that there is a single
set to which the phrase `the Supreme Court' refers in sentences
\ref{roe1} and \ref{roe2}'' \citep[138]{uzquiano2004a}.  To
successfully use the term `the Supreme Court' to refer to a set of
justices, there must be an implicit or explicit temporal reference.
If an utterance of \ref{roe1} is true it will be true because it the
speaker intends her audience to recognize her intention to refer to
the set of justices that was the Supreme Court in 1973.  If her
audience, for whatever reason, takes her to be referring to the
current Court, then they will evaluate \ref{roe1} as false.

Considered in this light, `the Supreme Court' is used to express a
relation between sets and times; ``$x$ is the Supreme Court at $t$''
\citep[140]{uzquiano2004a}.  There is some precedent for this sort of
interpretation:

\begin{squote}
Our use of the phrase `the Supreme Court' to express a relation a set
of justices bears to a time is much like our use of the phrase `the
president of the United States' to express a relation an individual
bears to a time.  Different persons may be the president of the United
States at different times, but there is at most one person that bears
that relation to each time \citep[138]{uzquiano2004a}.
\end{squote}

``But,'' it will be objected, ``there is an important difference here.
We use both terms---`the Supreme Court' and `the president'---to refer
to a past, present or future set that `is' the thing, but we also use
`the Supreme Court' to refer to {\em the Supreme Court}, which has
changed its membership over time.  If I say, `the Supreme Court has
become more conservative over the past century', there is no one set I
am referring to.  I must be referring to something else; the obvious
candidate is the {\em group} that is the Court.''

One reply here is to claim that all that what ``the Supreme Court has
become more conservative over the past century'' actually means is
that the members of the sets that have been the Supreme Court have
become more conservative.  Another, similar reply is that someone who
utters ``the Supreme Court has become more conservative over the past
century'' is saying something literally false (either because there is
no unique set that is being referred to, or because there is a unique
set referred to, but one that does not make the proposition true), but
can generally be understood to mean something else; namely, that the
members of the sets that have been the Supreme Court have become more
conservative.

Neither reply is {\em very} unintuitive; indeed, there is something
attractive about a thesis that reserves application of adjectives like
`conservative' for people, rather than other things like groups.

But there is a more pressing worry for the set identity thesis.
Recall that the set that is the Supreme Court at a given time might
also be the Special Committee on Judicial Ethics.  We must admit that
the Supreme Court in 2004 is the set \{Rehnquist, Stevens, O'Connor,
Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg, Breyer\}, and the Special
Committee in 2004 is that very same set.  But now we are committed to
this argument:

\begin{enumerate}[ref=(\arabic*)]
  \item The Special Committee on Judicial Ethics is one of the
    committees assembled by the Senate.

  \item The Special Committee on Judicial Ethics is identical with the
    Supreme Court.

  \item {\em Therefore} the Supreme Court is one of the committees
    assembled by the
    Senate. \citep[144]{uzquiano2004a} \label{sup-com}
\end{enumerate}

And \ref{sup-com} seems false.

But it may be possible to argue that \ref{sup-com} is not false but
only {\em misleading} (indeed, very misleading).  For it
(conversationally) implies that future sets referred to by `the
Supreme Court' will be identical to future sets referred to by `the
Special Committee'.  And it is {\em this} that is certainly false.

\subsection{Set membership and literal speech}
\label{implicate}
Suppose we arrive at a meeting of the Special Committee on Judicial
Ethics.  Rehnquist, Stevens, O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter,
Thomas, Ginsburg, and Breyer are sitting around a center table.  As we
take our seats you turn to me and say, ``they look rather familiar,
don't they?''  I say ``that's also the Supreme Court.''

What am I referring to with the demonstrative expression ``that''?  If
one thinks that I am referring to a {\em group}---the Special
Committee---that is distinct from the Supreme Court, my utterance will
have to be interpreted as non-literal.  I will have to be understood
to mean that the {\em members} of the Special Committee are also the
members of the Supreme Court.  (On the other hand, if I am referring
to the {\em set} of justices, what I said is literally true.)

Suppose instead that you ask me who the members of the Special
Committee are.  I say ``Rehnquist, Stevens, O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy,
Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg, and Breyer.  The Special Committee is just
the Supreme Court.''  Here again one could argue that I am speaking
non-literally; what I mean is that the members of the Special
Committee are just the members of the Supreme Court.  (But if the
Supreme Court and the Special Committee are just sets---the same
set---I have again said something literally true.)

Now suppose that the Special Committee is dissolved in 2004.  In 2005,
we see the members of the Supreme Court (still Rehnquist, Stevens,
O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg, and Breyer) out
to lunch together.  I point and say ``that was the Special Committee
on Judicial Ethics.''  Now what is the referent of ``that''?  It
cannot be the Special Committee, for that has ceased to be.  It must
either be the Supreme Court or the set \{Rehnquist, Stevens, O'Connor,
Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg, and Breyer\}.  Either way,
the proponent of groups will have to interpret this utterance as
non-literal.  (The set-identity theorist can interpret this utterance
as literally true, however; that set was the Special Committee before
the dissolution.)

Now suppose that the Special Committee is dissolved in 2004 and
Rehnquist retired before dying in 2005 (let's pretend he retired in
May).  Now in August we see Rehnquist, Stevens, O'Connor, Scalia,
Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg, and Breyer out to lunch together.
I point and say ``that was the Supreme Court {\em and} the Special
Committee on Judicial Ethics.''  I can only be referring to the set of
justices.  Why not suppose that I have only {\em ever} been referring
to the set of justices?  If I am in fact referring to the set
\{Rehnquist, Stevens, O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas,
Ginsburg, Breyer\}, then when I say ``that was the Supreme Court {\em
  and} the Special Committee'', I say something literally true.

I also say something literally true when I say ``the Supreme Court is
one of the committees assembled by the Senate'' or ``the Supreme Court
is the Special Committee on Judicial Ethics''.  But it is very
misleading to say either.  By saying ``the Supreme Court is the
Special Committee'' I imply that future referents of `the Supreme
Court' will be identical to future referents of `the Special
Committee'.  It is less misleading to say ``the current Supreme Court
is the Special Committee on Judicial Ethics''.  (It is even less
misleading to say ``the current Supreme Court is also the Special
Committee''.)

We use `the Supreme Court' sometimes to refer (whether literally or
non-literally) to more than one set.  When I say ``the Supreme Court
has become more diverse'' I mean that the members of the sets that
have been the Supreme Court have become more diverse.  It may be due
to this fact that we so easily misinterpret uttered propositions like
``the Supreme Court is the Special Committee''.  A listener might take
this to mean that the members of the sets that have been the Supreme
Court are identical with the members of the sets that have been the
Special Committee.  They would therefore evaluate the utterance as
false.

I have tried to show here that by identifying groups with sets, we can
interpret some talk as literal rather than non-literal.  I think this
is a good thing.  But it will be objected that the set identity thesis
forces us to interpret a great deal of {\em other} talk as
non-literal, talk which is commonly thought of as literal.  Take, for
example, ``the Supreme Court has become more conservative''.  If we
claim that the Supreme Court is a set, we cannot interpret this
utterance as literally true; {\em sets} do not have political
leanings.  Someone who utters this, according to the set identity
thesis, must be taken to mean that the members of the sets that have
been the referents of ``the Supreme Court'' have become more
conservative.

But can the advocate of groups interpret this literally?  Can groups
{\em literally} have political leanings?  Or must the speaker be
interpreted as meaning that the members of the group have become more
conservative?  I think it is plausible that ``the Supreme Court has
become more conservative'' must be interpreted as non-literal, whether
the Supreme Court is a group or a set.

What about an utterance such as ``the Supreme Court ruled against the
defendant''?  If the Supreme Court is a set, this utterance will have
to be interpreted as non-literal.  Sets don't {\em do} things; we will
have to interpret the speaker as meaning that the Supreme Court
justices ruled against the defendant.  But what if the Court was
divided over the ruling?  If several justices wrote dissenting
opinions, it seems that {\em they} didn't rule against the defendant.
Rather, we want to say that the {\em group} ruled against the
defendant.  The proponent of groups may be in a slightly stronger
position here.  But if we identify the Supreme Court with a set, we
can still say that the {\em majority} of the Supreme Court justices
ruled against the defendant.  And that is more or less what we mean
when we say ``the Supreme Court ruled against the defendant''.

Whether we identify the Supreme Court with a group or a set, we will
have to interpret certain talk as non-literal.  This should not worry
us.  It is likely that much of our talk {\em is} non-literal (see
\citet{bach1987}).  For example, we may have to interpret ``the chair
is mine'' as non-literal, because it might be that ``the chair is
mine'' entails that there is only one chair in the world.  Even
propositions involving proper names might be non-literal.  If `Alex'
designates every person named `Alex', then ``Alex is lying down''
might be literally false because it entails either that there is only
one `Alex' or that every `Alex' is lying down.

Whether or not we identify the Supreme Court and other groups with
sets, we will have to interpret some apparently literal speech as
non-literal.  So the set identity thesis should not be dismissed
because of considerations about literal speech.

%% This is because it is mutually assumed that the set referred to by
%% `the Supreme Court' will change; the current set of justices will
%% not always be the Supreme Court.  It is a contingent fact that one
%% set---\{Rehnquist, Stevens, O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, Souter,
%% Thomas, Ginsburg, and Breyer\}---is both the Supreme Court and the
%% Special Committee in 2004, But since the form of the sentence ``the
%% Supreme Court is the Special Committee'' is that of an identity
%% statement, and sincethe audience will understandably

\subsection{Conventional identity conditions}
\label{set-convention}
Even supposing everything above is right, there is still more to be
said.  What are the `identity conditions' for the Supreme Court over
time?  Although the Supreme Court is a set, we use `the Supreme Court'
to refer to different sets at different times.  What governs this
shifting reference?  What makes it true that one set is the Supreme
Court in 2004 and a different set is in 2012?

What makes it true that a given set is the Supreme Court at a given
time is simply our legal conventions.  The Constitution authorizes the
recognition of a set of justices as `the Supreme Court'.  Which set is
recognized as the Supreme Court is decided by the legislative and
executive branches.  The president nominates a set (the sitting
justices and the nominated justice) and the legislative branch votes.
The outcome of the vote make it true or false that a given set is the
Supreme Court.

(Now what do we mean when we say ``the Supreme Court was established
in 1789''?  Perhaps that the convention of referring to a set of
justices as `the Supreme Court'---and the granting of legal powers to
them---began in 1789.)

This is analogous for all `groups'.  Teams, bands, militias---what
makes it true that a certain set is a team, band or militia is just
the conventions governing the group.  If I desert my militia and the
other members of the militia recognize my absence as a desertion, then
it is understood that I am no longer part of the militia; for that
reason it is then true that the set containing me is no longer the
militia.  A smaller set, not containing me, is now the militia.

It seems, then, that {\em `identity' conditions over time for groups
  are wholly conventional}.  This is plausible; groups are social
entities, and it makes sense that their composition should be a matter
of social convention.  But if this is true, it suggests something more
radical: that identity conditions over time for physical objects like
chairs are conventional as well.

\section{The conventions of ordinary things}
Recall how Fine defined the summation operator of classical
mereology (section \ref{classical}:

\begin{displaymath}
\sum _m (\mathellipsis , x, y, z, \mathellipsis )
\end{displaymath}

The identity conditions for sums is {\em regular}: sums $A$ and $B$
are identical if and only if the summation operation that produced $A$
took the same things---{\em other than sums}---as variables
($\mathellipsis , x, y, z, \mathellipsis $) as did the operation that
produced $B$.  In other words, if mereological sums are ultimately
composed of partless atoms (`simples'), then two sums are identical if
and only if they share all the same simples.

There is an obvious parallel between the current conception of sums
and that of sets.  Neither sets nor mereological sums, so conceived,
can change their parts.

Ordinary things like statues, however, {\em can} apparently change
their parts.  If I break the nose of my statue, I can replace it.  Do
I thereby have a new statue?  It seems I do not; rather, I have fixed
my old statue.

At this point one might say that statues are therefore not
mereological sums, and posit a type of entity that includes statues
and {\em can} change its parts over time.  Perhaps a statue would then
be composed by a sum at a time.  We could relativize the composition
operator for statues to times.  This would be parallel to our
treatment of groups above (section \ref{group-time}).  The
`object-builder' would then be an operator that takes sums at times
and produces an object---in this case, a statue: $O = \sum _{t} ( S
)$.

But having divorced the statue from the sum that composes it, trouble
arises.  For seems plausible that a sum (at a time) might compose more
than one object.  Just as the set \{Rehnquist, Stevens, O'Connor,
Scalia, Kennedy, Souter, Thomas, Ginsburg, Breyer\} composed both the
Supreme Court and the Special Committee on Judicial Ethics in 2004, so
the sum $S$ might compose the statue and the lump of clay.  Just as
the Supreme Court has different powers and a different history than
the Special Committee, so the statue and the lump have (apparently)
different properties and histories.  The statue cannot survive a
squashing; the lump can.  The lump may have been formed on Monday; the
statue might not have come into being until Tuesday.

We might assume that the lump is also produced by means of the
object-builder: $O^{\prime} = \sum _{t} ( S )$.  But now we face the
same problems that plagued the time-relative group operator (section
\ref{group-id}).  Above, we produced the statue by means of the same
object-builder operation: $O = \sum _{t} ( S )$.  How can we deny that
$O = O^{\prime}$, that the statue is identical with the lump?

Just as with the Supreme Court and the Special Committee, the obvious
way to distinguish the statue and the lump is by reference to their
different properties (modal and otherwise).  Just as we produced the
Supreme Court and the Special Committee by means of different
operators, so we can introduce separate composition operators to build
the statue and the lump.  The statue will be the product of the
statue-builder $\sum _{st}$ and the lump the lump-builder $\sum
_{lump}$.

But the same problems arise.  Having the Supreme Court and the Special
Committee be the products of different operators means that they are
different {\em kinds} of things---to say that both are `groups' is
simply to bring two heterogeneous kinds under one label.  Likewise, the
statue and the lump are different kinds of things---to say that both
are `physical objects' is simply to bring two heterogeneous kinds
under one label.

And just as we faced an `explosion of reality' after allowing the
proliferation of `groups', so again we face an explosion of `physical
things' with different properties.  Since we have allowed that the
statue and the lump may be different things composed of the same sums,
why stop there?  We can introduce more composition operators that
produce distinct objects.  Where we see a statue and a lump, why not
suppose that there is an infinity of objects, each of a different kind
and with slightly different properties?

This is not a particularly attractive position, but it is not
indefensible (see \citet[section 4]{bennett2004}).  Since we have
already allowed a plurality of scattered objects like archipelagos and
dogbushes, why not allow a plurality of co-located objects?

I do not think I can rule out this possibility, but I think there is
another option that has some plausibility.  Just as we found a way to
identify groups with sets, and so shrink the ``mereological
firmament'', so can we identify ordinary things with sums.

\subsection{Referring to sums}
\label{chair-ref}
Just as we identified groups like the Supreme Court with different
sets at different times, so we can identify things like chairs with
different sums at different times.  Terms like `chair' will be used to
express a relation between a sum and a time.

This will have the consequence that, at $t_1$, the statue is identical
with the lump of clay.  This will be true, since they are both the set
$S$.  The statue {\em is} the lump of clay.  This seems correct.  If
someone were to ask ``I see the statue, but where did the lump of clay
go?'' we would reply, ``the statue {\em is} the lump''.

If we feel tempted to say that the statue is not identical with the
lump, this is because future (and {\em possible}) utterances of
`statue' may not be used to refer to the same sum as future utterances
of `lump'.  (Thus we can account for their apparent modal differences
as well.)

The identification of statues (and lumps) with sums allows us to
explain some sorts of talk that would be otherwise problematic.  For
example, suppose I make a statue out of a lump of clay.  You come
along and squish the statue (thereby destroying it):

\stage{Alex}{}{That was my statue!}

If we thought that the statue was a distinct thing from the sum (and
from the lump), we would have to interpret what I say non-literally.
For if the statue was a distinct thing that has been destroyed, then
when I use a demonstrative like ``that'' I cannot be referring to the
non-existence statue.  My audience may interpret me as referring to
the lump, and meaning that there used to be a statue co-located with
the lump.  But if we suppose that the statue was not a distinct thing
from the sum (and from the lump), then what I said is literally true.
For ``that''---that sum---was a statue, but is no longer.  It is no
longer a statue because it no longer satisfies our conventional
criteria for what counts as a statue.  (You could dispute these
criteria; after I say ``that was my statue'', you could say ``it still
is your statue; it's just a flatter statue than it was''.)

One objection that may arise here is that, {\em strictly speaking},
the statue still exists.  Worse, if the statue is just the sum, then
the statue existed even before it was sculpted!  How can that be?

Suppose I have a lump of clay on Monday:

\stage{Alex}{}{This will be a statue!}

On Tuesday I make a statue out of the clay:

\stage{Alex}{}{Yesterday this was nothing more than a lump of clay!
  Now look at it!}

On Wednesday you squish the statue:

\stage{Alex}{}{Well, it's not a statue anymore.}

With these examples, I am trying to motivate the idea that we refer to
the sum when we use terms like `it' and `this'.  The sum referred to
on Monday is the same (or nearly the same) sum referred to on Tuesday
and on Wednesday.  When I say ``this will be a statue'', therefore, I
mean that this sum will meet the criteria for being referred to as a
statue.  When I say ``this was nothing more than a lump of clay'', I
mean that this sum previously met only the criteria for being referred
to as a lump of clay.  When I say ``it's not a statue anymore'', I
mean that it no longer meets the criteria for being referred to as a
statue.

But what if I say ``that statue doesn't exist anymore''?  I suggest
that this should be interpreted in almost all cases as meaning that
the sum that is understood to have been the referent of `that statue'
no longer meets the criteria for being the referent of `statue'.  If
``that statue doesn't exist'' is taken in a more literal sense, then
it is false.

Peter van Inwagen has a similar objection to the idea that sums cannot
change their parts (he assumes that ordinary things are sums).
Suppose that sums cannot change change their parts:

\begin{squote}
Call the bricks that were piled in the yard last Tuesday the ``Tuesday
bricks.''  Between last Tuesday and today, the Wise Pig has built a
house---the ``Brick House''---out of the Tuesday bricks (using them
all and using no other materials).  The Brick House did not exist last
Tuesday (that is, it was not then a pile of bricks, a thing that was
not yet a house but would become a house).  The Brick House is not,
therefore, a mereological sum; for if it were, it would have been (it
would have ``existed as'') a pile of bricks last Tuesday
\citeyearpar[616]{inwagen2006}.
\end{squote}

But since the Brick House {\em is} a mereological sum, van Inwagen
concludes that our supposition that sums can't change their parts is
false; he claims that mereological sums {\em can} change their parts.

However, I suggest that, strictly speaking, the Brick House {\em did}
exist last Tuesday.  But last Tuesday it (the sum) did not meet the
criteria for being referred to as a house.  Today I point to the Brick
House and say ``last Tuesday that was just a pile of bricks.  Now it's
a house!''  By `that' I mean the Brick House---the sum---which was a
pile of bricks on Tuesday.  If I say ``the Brick House did not exist
last Tuesday'' I should be taken to mean just that the Brick House did
not meet the criteria for being referred to as `the Brick House' last
Tuesday.

\subsection{Criteria and convention}
\label{criteria}
Like the `identity' of groups over time, the `identity' over time of a
given thing---like my chair---will be conventional.

But this does not mean that {\em I} have the final say over how my
chair persists through time.  The identity over time of the Supreme
Court is conventional, but it is not up to me.  There are entrenched
legal conventions governing the persistence of the Supreme Court.
Likewise, for different things, different conventions will govern
their persistence.  Recall Rosenberg's discussion of the problem with
van Inwagen's Special Composition Question (section \ref{lessons-v}).
He rejected the idea that there is just one way in which `material
objects' are composed:

\begin{squote}
Microphysics explains how protons, neutrons, and electrons compose
different species of atoms, and physical chemistry, how atoms of
various species compose different sorts of molecules
\citep[706]{rosenberg1993}.
\end{squote}

I think it is plausible to claim that atoms, molecules, animals,
chairs, statues and lumps are, in fact, identical with sums.  If this
is correct, then there is really just {\em one} way in which these
things are composed.  But they {\em persist through time} in very
different ways; which sum is identical with a given animal, for
example, depends on the `conventions' of the biological sciences.

\subsection{Essentialism}
\label{essentialism}
This theory---the second of the two possible answers I mentioned at
the beginning of this section---is a version of {\em essentialism}.
Essentialism is the thesis that, strictly speaking, things don't
change their parts.  One can endorse or oppose essentialism in various
domains.  For example, everyone is a set essentialist; nobody (as far
as I know) claims that sets can change their parts.  But not everyone
is a {\em mereological} essentialist.

People who deny mereological essentialism are, I think, making one of
two claims:

\begin{enumerate}
  \item They may be claiming that ordinary things like chairs are not
    mereological sums; chairs can change their parts, so essentialism
    {\em with regard to chairs} is false.  A philosopher who makes
    this claim might allow that mereological sums, if there are such
    things, cannot change their parts.
  \item They may be claiming that mereological sums, whether or not
    they are identical with ordinary things like chairs, can change
    their parts.
\end{enumerate}

The first claim is probably more common (but see \citet{inwagen2006}
for a defense of the second).  But a philosopher who makes either
claim will reject the theory I have been building.  They will say that
my theory flies in the face of common sense (and I made so much of
common sense in earlier sections!).  They will say things like this:

\begin{squote}
According to [the essentialist], it is never literally correct to say
that a thing survives a change in parts.  This is a point of massive
departure from ordinary belief \citep[184]{sider2001}.
\end{squote}

This is more or less the argument against essentialism.  You point at
a chair and say ``I'm supposed to believe that if that chair loses
{\em one atom}, it's literally a different chair?''

The more emphasis one places on `literally', the more plausible
essentialism is.  ``Is it {\em literally} the same chair?  Well, it
lost a part, so it's not {\em exactly} the same chair.''

At this point the antagonist will claim that I am equivocating between
{\em descriptive} and {\em numerical} sameness.  Of course the chair
is {\em different}; it has lost a part and so has different
properties.  But the question is not whether {\em the} chair is
different; the question is whether there is a {\em different chair} in
place of the old chair.

Perhaps my intuitions are simply wrong, but I find some plausibility
in the idea that, {\em strictly speaking}, when a chair loses a part,
the later chair is descriptively {\em and} numerically distinct from
the chair that possessed the part.  Even if ``that's the same chair as
yesterday'' is literally false, the sum that yesterday satisfies the
criteria for being the referent of ``chair'' no longer satisfies those
criteria; a different sum that has many of the same parts now
satisfies those criteria, and so qualifies as `the same chair'.  (How
similar the two sums has to be is, again, a conventional matter.)

Maybe I am wrong and it is true that (strictly speaking) the chair can
lose its parts and yet remain the (numerically) same chair.  If so,
then we must accept the mereological firmament that comes with Fine's
theory.

\section{Am I a mereological sum?}
\label{i-sum}
I have proposed that ordinary things like chairs and statues are
mereological sums.  Their apparent persistence through change is a
result of certain conventions---a chair at $t_1$ is the `same' chair
at $t_2$ if, first, there is a sum at each time that meets our
criteria for being a referent of `chair' and, second, either the sum
that is the referent of `chair' at $t_1$ is the same sum that is the
referent of `chair' at $t_2$, or the sum that was the referent of
`chair' at $t_1$ does not meet the criteria for being the referent
of `chair' at $t_2$ and a different sum does meet these criteria at
$t_2$ and is sufficiently related to the first sum.  What is
`sufficiently related' is again a conventional matter, but will
presumably involve causal and spatiotemporal continuity.

If ordinary things are sums, then are other things sums as well?  I
will suppose that sums are `material things' as opposed to `abstract
things' (whatever that distinction comes to), but are {\em all}
material things sums?  If we are material things, are we therefore
sums?

% all material things are sums

\subsection{All material things are sums}
\label{material-sum}
If we think that ordinary things are sums, and that ordinary things
are material things, I think it is extremely plausible to conclude
that all material things are sums.  For what else would they be?

What is included under the label `material thing'?  I would include
things like chairs, and desks, and desk lamps, and doors, and
doorways, and houses, and gardens, and plants.  I would also include
minuscule objects like molecules and massive objects like planets and
galaxies.  What would these things be, if not sums?

I proposed that ordinary things are sums so as to avoid the conclusion
that there is a plurality of different kinds of ordinary things
(statues and lumps only scratch the surface) all overlapping each
other.  This essentialist proposal was made so as to avoid positing
many different kinds of thing.  So anyone who accepts the essentialist
theory should be sympathetic to the idea that all material things are
sums.

I don't have a powerful argument for this conclusion, but I don't see
the {\em point} of supposing that all and only ordinary things are
sums, but other material things are some different kind of object.

% we are material things (animals)

\subsection{We are material things}
\label{material-beings}
Even if the idea that all material things are sums is (or should be)
relatively uncontroversial, the idea that {\em we} are material beings
will not be unanimously accepted.  For it does have some unintuitive
consequences.  

First, it rules out identifying us with our mental states.  Suppose
all my psychological characteristics---memory, personality---is
somehow transferred to another body.  The brain in that body is
`wiped' before my psychology is transferred, and after the operation
my old brain is similarly `wiped'.  There is a temptation to say that
I exist in the new body.  But saying this commits us to the claim that
I am not a material thing, because I `left' my old material body and
came to `inhabit' a new one:

\begin{squote}
 If I am identical with the thinking substance in which I am thus
 placed, then I cannot be transferred {\em from} that substance to
 another substance \citep[107]{chisholm1979}.
\end{squote}

Claiming that we are material things entails that psychological
continuity is not a criterion of identity.  The body into which my
psychology is transferred is not me, according to the materialist
claim.  Psychological continuity is often taken to be {\em the}
criterion of identity, so one might take this consequence as a
refutation of the claim that we are material things.

But if we are not material things, what are we?  The only alternative
I see is to claim that we are immaterial minds or souls.  These
positions seem, to me, to be more implausible than the claim that we
are material things.  (More, of course, can be said here.)

Claiming that we are material things gives rise to another question:
what material things are we?  Are we identical with our brains, or
with our bodies?

I suggest, though somewhat tentatively, that we are identical with our
bodies.  I agree with Peter van Inwagen on this much:

\begin{squote}
I suppose that [the objects of mental predicates]---Descartes, you,
I---are material objects, in the sense that they are ultimately
composed entirely of quarks and electrons.  They are, moreover, a very
special sort of material object.  They are not brains or cerebral
hemispheres.  They are living animals; being {\em human} animals, they
are things shaped roughly like statues of human beings
\citeyearpar[6]{inwagen1995}.
\end{squote}

Eric Olson has a very plausible argument for the same conclusion:

\begin{enumerate}
  \item There is a human animal sitting in your chair.
  \item The human animal sitting in your chair is thinking. (If you
    like, every human animal sitting there is thinking.)
  \item You are the thinking being sitting in your chair. The one and
    only thinking being sitting in your chair is none other than
    you. Hence, you are that animal \citeyearpar[``8'']{olson2003a}.
\end{enumerate}

One apparent consequence of the claim that we are material human
animals is that if my brain is removed from my body and put into
another body, that new person is not me.  Claiming that we are
material things required denying that psychological continuity is a
criterion of identity; claiming that we are material human animals
requires denying that even brain continuity is a criterion of
identity.

This may seem to be a troubling consequence, but it is much less
troubling if we accept the essentialist theory.  If material objects
are sums, and if we are material objects, then we are sums.  And if
sums do not, strictly speaking, change their parts over time, then,
like the `identity' conditions for chairs and other ordinary things,
the `identity' conditions over time for {\em us} is conventional.

% we are sums

% our persistence conditions are conventional

\subsection{How do I persist over time?}
\label{person-persist}
The idea that, strictly speaking, I don't change my parts over time
seems crazy.  And maybe it is.  But I don't think it is obviously
false.

Someone who thinks that I do, strictly speaking, persist over time
might say that it is obvious that I persist.  After all, I engage in
activities that take long periods of time, I remember things from long
ago, and I bear unique attitudes toward my past and future selves.  I
feel pride or regret at past actions, and anticipation or apprehension
at future ones.  How could these past and future selves not be me?

One reply begins by pointing out that, whether or not we persist in a
strict sense, the world will look the same.  I will still engage in
activities that take time; but it will not be I who completes them.  I
will still remember things from long ago; but it will not be I who
experienced them.  I will bear attitudes towards past and future
people, but those people will not, strictly speaking, be me.  But it
will {\em seem} as if they are me, and they will meet the conventional
criteria for being the referent of `me'.  As in the case of tables and
chairs, there are conventional `identity' conditions for people over
time.  Like tables and chairs, these criteria will involve causal and
spatiotemporal continuity, but psychological continuity may also play
a role.  For example, if by some miracle I am vaporized and
(coincidentally) an qualitatively identical person is summoned into
existence nearby, that person will not, strictly speaking be me.  But
it may be agreed that the person meets the criteria for being the
referent of `Alex'.  If this person meets these criteria, it will be
on account of the apparent psychological continuity between us.

\section{Can the essentialist theory explain why we believe what we
  believe?}
\label{explain-e}
In section \ref{explain-p} I assessed whether any of the three
`plurality' theories could explain why we held beliefs that conflicted
with certain consequences of the theories.  The same assessement may
be conducted with regard to the essentialist theory I have sketched in
this section.  If the essentialist thesis is right, why do we believe
that chairs are literally identical over time?

\subsection{Why do we believe that ordinary things persist?}
\label{why-persist}
If we want to defend the essentialist theory, we should try to explain
why we generally seem to think that things like chairs literally
persist over time, and can change their parts over time as well.

\section{Lessons}
\label{lessons-e}
In section \ref{parts} I examined three different versions of the
`plurality thesis'; the view that there are pluralities of co-located
objects.  In this section I offered an alternative.  I am not sure
whether my theory or one of the plurality theses is correct, but I
suspect that it is one or the other.  My conclusion is largely the
same as that of Karen Bennett:

\begin{squote}
The only live options, then, are to be either a one-thinger or a
bazillion-thinger.  We must either think that there is only one thing per
spatio-temporal location, or else that there are lots and \emph{lots} of
spatio-temporally coincident things \citeyearpar[358]{bennett2004}.
\end{squote}

I would prefer to be a `one-thinger' because it does not commit me to
a `bazillion' things all in the same place.  That is not a decisive
objection, of course.  It may well be that such an explosion is more
plausible than certain consequences of the `one-thinger' theory.  But
I think one of the two theories must be right.

\subsection{Do we need Fine's theory at all?}
\label{need-fine}
I have argued that we can identify ordinary things like chairs as
mereological sums, and we can identify things like groups as sets.  It
is therefore not necessary to use Fine's theory of parthood to
describe these things.  Do we need Fine's theory at all?

I think the theory is still useful.  For it shows that sums and sets
both have parts, but in different ways.  There are also sequences,
strings, and other things produced by various composition operators.
And there are other things that exist, like words, poems, events, and
quantities, that have parts in other ways.  Fine's theory may help us
define composition operators for these things, if they cannot be
described in terms of sets and sums (which I suspect they cannot be).

Fine's theory also suggests a novel way of describing temporal parts.
He claims that not all operators are compositional; some are {\em
  decompositional}.  He introduces the segmentation operation that
takes partless simples and produces their `parts'---the top and
bottom, left and right half, etc.  These `parts' are derived from the
wholes, rather than the wholes being built up from the parts:

\begin{squote}
Let us suppose that the universe consists of physical atoms which are
physically indivisible but of finite volume.  We might then
distinguish between the upper and lower parts of the atom (relative to
its orientation at a given time); and it is plausible that the atoms
are to be taken as givens, there being no explanation of their
identity in more basic terms, while the identity of the upper and
lower parts of an atom is to be explained in terms of their {\em
  being} the upper and lower parts of the atom.  Thus the account of
the part is in terms of the whole rather than the other way around
\citep[585]{fine2010}.
\end{squote}

Likewise, if we maintain that objects are not {\em composed} of
temporal parts, but are `temporally indivisible', we can nonetheless
have a temporal-segmentation operator that generates temporal `parts'
from temporally `simple' wholes.  These parts would have theoretical
utility; we could quantify over them without committing ourselves to
their existence (in a `basic' sense).  This sort of derived temporal
part might allow for a form of four-dimensionalism (the conjunction of
universalism and the doctrine of temporal parts) that avoids the
`spinning disc' problem, among others.

So whether or not we accept the ``vast mereological firmament'' that
Fine envisions, his theory of part is useful.

\subsection{Deflationary metaphysics}
\label{deflate}
Kathrin Koslicki has an interesting objection to universalist theses
such as the one I appear committed to.  Her objection amounts to this:
if every `collection' of objects (such as the London Bridge, a
particle in the moon, and Cal Ripkin, Jr.) is a thing in its own right
(a sum), then metaphysics becomes uninteresting.  There is no longer
any debate about whether chairs or dogbushes are more `real' or have a
stronger claim to existence.  They both (obviously) exist, and the
difference between chairs and lumpkins is not ontological but
conceptual: `chair' is more embedded in our talk, and so chairs have
greater importance to {\em us}.  But metaphysically, or ontologically,
chairs and dogbushes are on the same level.  There is no sense in
which chairs exist and lumpkins do not.

In the quoted material below, Koslicki is criticizing a version of
four-dimensionalism that Sider has previously defended.  Sider's
position was that any collection of objects-at-times is a thing in its
own right.  Sider calls these things `fusions'.  For example, a chair
is a fusion of a large number of {\em temporal part} of things (wood
molecules, or atoms, or simples).  Each thing (wood molecule, atom, or
simple) is a fusion of {\em its} temporal parts.  Each temporal part
of the chair is also a thing (a fusion).

I take no stance on whether objects have temporal parts or rather
`endure' through time.  Moreover, if we accept Fine's theory of parts
then we reject the idea that there is just one composition operation;
the operation that produces fusions is one among many.  But Koslicki's
comments are relevant nonetheless:

\begin{squote}
There is room, in Sider's theory, for {\em some} genuine ontological
disagreements: for example, the universalist, the nihilist and the
holder of the intermediary position genuinely disagree over how many
and which fusions that exist.  But the only genuine ontological
disagreements for which there is room, in Sider's world, are ones that
concern disagreements over `bare' fusions, so to speak.  What has
happened to the houses, trees, people, and cars, the familiar concrete
objects of common-sense, whose persistence this account set out to
analyze?  There are no `deep' ontological facts as to whether a given
fusion should count as a house or not\,\ldots

[By claiming that there can be genuine ontological disputes,] Sider is
guilty of a bit of false advertising: his account is really a way of
saying that, at the end of the day, there is no interesting {\em
  ontological} story to be told about the persistence of our familiar
concrete objects of common-sense; whatever there is to say about the
persistence of houses, trees, people and cars concerns the
organization of our conceptual household
\citeyearpar[124--125]{koslicki2003}.
\end{squote}

Koslicki seems to think that we ought to be able to find some
ontological difference between ``the familiar concrete objects of
common-sense'' and things like lumpkins or chairs-at-times.  But as I
remarked above (section \ref{universalism}), why should what interests
us (familiar objects like chairs) be a guide to what exists?  The
conclusion that ``the persistence [and other properties] of houses,
trees, people and cars concerns the organization of our conceptual
household'' seems to be correct.

However, there {\em is} an ontological difference between some things,
if not between chairs and dogbushes.  One lesson of Kit Fine's theory
of parts is that mereological sums are not the only kind of composite
thing.  There are sets as well, and strings, and sequences, and
perhaps infinitely many other types of thing.  The difference between
a set and a sum is an ontological difference.  Within each type,
however, we must rely on our own conceptual `scheme' to organize
things.

In section \ref{lessons-v} I considered Jay Rosenberg's claim that
the Special Composition Question is the wrong question to be asking.
Rosenberg's position seems to be that there is {\em no} answer to the
Special Composition Question.  Rather, he thinks what it takes to
`compose' something depends on what that something is---making a chair
is not like making a pie.

This insight of Rosenberg's can be connected with the insights of
Fine's theory.  If we understand `composition' in the Special
Composition Question to mean {\em mereological composition}, then
Rosenberg was wrong if he held that there is no correct answer to the
Special Composition Question.  It seems intuitively true that
mereological composition is unrestricted.  But if take `composition'
in the Special Composition Question to be $K$-composition---any
composition operator at all---then Rosenberg was {\em right} that
there is no answer.  What the application conditions are for a
composition operator depends on {\em which} composition operation is
being applied.  

Moreover, determining the application conditions for these composition
operators, and determining their identity conditions, and determining
the other properties of these various operators is a task for
metaphysics.  The field is not then so barren as Koslicki seems to
have feared.  But it is true that many interesting questions---When
are we willing to call something a chair, and why?  What conditions
must be fulfilled?---are not ontological questions anymore.  They are
questions about our ``conceptual household.''

\ifstandalone
\end{spacing}
\bibliography{everything}
\bibliographystyle{ChicagoReedweb}
\fi
\end{document}
