\documentclass[11pt]{standalone}
\usepackage{standalone} \newif\ifstandlone \standalonetrue
\usepackage[left=1.75in, right=1.75in, top=1.25in, bottom=1.25in]{geometry}
\geometry{letterpaper}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{enumitem}
%\usepackage{amssymb}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{verbatim}
\usepackage{epstopdf}
\usepackage{setspace}
\usepackage{natbib}
\setcitestyle{aysep={}}
\usepackage%[colorlinks=true, citecolor=blue, linkcolor=black]%
{hyperref}

\synctex=1

\DeclareSymbolFont{symbolsC}{U}{txsyc}{m}{n}
\DeclareMathSymbol{\strictif}{\mathrel}{symbolsC}{74}
\DeclareMathSymbol{\boxright}{\mathrel}{symbolsC}{128}

\newcommand{\stager}[4]%
{%
	\begin{spacing}{1}%
	\vspace{0pt}
		\begin{description}[style=nextline, noitemsep,
                    parsep=0pt, topsep=0pt, leftmargin=15mm,
                    itemindent=-10mm, font=\mdseries]
			\item[\textsc{#1} \emph{#2}] #3
			\item[]%
			\begin{flushright}#4\end{flushright}
		\end{description}%
	\end{spacing}%
}

\newcommand{\stage}[3]%
{%
	\begin{spacing}{1}%
	\vspace{0pt}
		\begin{description}[style=nextline, parsep=0pt,
                    leftmargin=15mm, itemindent=-10mm, font=\mdseries]
			\item[\textsc{#1} \emph{#2}] #3
		\end{description}%
	\end{spacing}%
}

\newenvironment{squote}{%
	\begin{spacing}{1}
	\begin{list}{}{%
	\setlength{\labelwidth}{0pt}%
	\rightmargin\leftmargin%
	}
	%\begin{singlespace}%
	\item\relax
	}{%
	%\end{singlespace}%
	\end{list}%
	\end{spacing}
	}

\newenvironment{inq}{\vspace{0pt}%
	\begin{list}{}%
	{\setlength\labelwidth{0pt}%
	\setlength\leftmargin{2.5\oddsidemargin}%
	\setlength\rightmargin{\leftmargin}}
	\begin{spacing}{1}
	\item[]%
	}{
	\end{spacing}
	\end{list}
	\vspace{10pt}
	%\noindent%
	}

\title{Denying the Ordinary}
\author{Alexander A. Dunn}
\begin{document}
\ifstandalone
\maketitle
\tableofcontents
\begin{spacing}{1.5}
\fi



%\begin{inq}
%The philosophical quest must start somewhere. It needs a set of beliefs about what the world is like. Without some attitudes, perceptions, beliefs, or theories to start with, it would have nothing to reflect on.~\citep[16]{stroud2000a}
%\end{inq}

%	\begin{inq}\textbf{quine}, v. To deny resolutely the existence or importance of something real or significant.
%	\footnote{This is of course from the {\em Philosophical Lexicon}~\citep{dennett2008}.}%}
%	\end{inq}%

\section{Introduction}
\label{intro-deny}
\noindent Many people have false beliefs.  They believe things that
misrepresent (in some sense) how the world is.  For example, some
people believe that ghosts exist.  These people each hold a false
belief, for it is not true that ghosts exist.  There are no ghosts in
the world.  Despite this fact---that there are no ghosts---some people
believe that there are.  Why?

Even people who hold beliefs that we may consider `irrational' (like
the belief that there are ghosts) have {\em reasons} for holding these
beliefs.  They may not be good reasons; someone might believe that
there are ghosts because her older sister told her that there are
ghosts, or read ghost stories as a child and took them seriously.
Someone who believes in ghosts might even think that she has {\em
  seen} a ghost.  This too would be a false belief; there are no
ghosts, so nobody can have seen one.  But here too there will be a
reason why she holds this false belief.  Perhaps she saw a strange
play of light on a distant wall, or the reflection of the moon
filtered through an attic window.  It was one of these things that she
actually saw, but she somehow took what she saw to be a ghost.
Probably she already believed that there were ghosts, and so, when
confronted with a deceptive or confusing sight, was predisposed to
form the mistaken belief that she was seeing a ghost.

At least in some cases of false belief, therefore, we can identify one
or more reasons why the person holds that false belief.  It is
certainly not unique to the case of ghosts above.  For example,
suppose someone falsely believes that $((P \rightarrow Q ) \wedge Q)
\rightarrow P$ is a theorem of first-order logic.  There would most
likely be some reason why they hold this belief; probably they
attempted to deduce it from no premises and (again, falsely) believe
that they succeeded.  There will, in turn, be a reason why they hold
{\em this} false belief; maybe they were not concentrating on the
proof steps, or they forgot certain rules of deduction.

In identifying the reasons why someone holds a false belief, we
thereby {\em explain} why they hold it.  If we are asked why the
person in our example above believes in ghosts and we say ``well, she
read lots of ghost stories as a kid and because of that she thought
she saw a ghost in her attic,'' that seems to qualify as an adequate
explanation.

Many of our {\em true} beliefs are explained the same way.  If someone
were to ask me why I believe that the Earth is roughly 8 light-minutes
from the Sun, I might say ``well, that's what scientists have
discovered, or at any rate that's what I've been told.''  If someone
were to ask me why I believe that $((P \rightarrow Q ) \wedge P)
\rightarrow Q$ is a theorem of first-order logic, I might say ``well,
it's obvious, and anyway I've done the proof.''

What is interesting is that we explain {\em some} true beliefs
differently.  If someone were to ask me why I believe that the sky is
blue during the day, my immediate answer would probably be ``well,
because it is!''  But of course, this not a full explanation.  From
the fact that something is true (the sky {\em is} blue), it does not
follow that I believe it.  Otherwise I would believe every truth, and
I do not.  There are doubtless many truths that I do not believe.
There must therefore be another reason why I believe that the sky is
blue, other than the fact that the sky is blue.

I believe that the sky is blue because I have {\em seen} that it is
blue.  My vision is generally reliable (or at least seems to be), so
the fact that my eyes `tell' me something is good reason to believe
it.  The same is true of my other senses: they are generally reliable,
so the fact that they `tell' me something is a good reason to believe
it.  It does not follow that it is {\em true}, however (though no
doubt we believe that it is true); our eyes can be deceived.  

A skeptic might claim that we cannot rule out the possibility that we
are {\em constantly} deceived.  They attempt to undermine the
reliability of our senses.  I will not be addressing such arguments.
Rather, in what follows I will examine arguments that deny (or appear
to deny) that many of our beliefs about `ordinary things' are true.
The philosophers making these denials do not claim that our eyes are
unreliable sources of information.  Their arguments are metaphysical
rather than epistemic; they deny that certain objects are {\em
  possible}.  

For example, Peter Unger claims that chairs do not exist.  He relies
on a number of metaphysical arguments to motivate this claim.  If he
is right, however, then it seems to follow from this that beliefs like
the following are necessarily false:

\begin{itemize}
  \item Some chairs are made of wood.
  \item There have existed many chairs which no longer exist.
  \item There are chairs.
\end{itemize}

I, however, believe that all of these propositions are true.  Even if
Unger is right, and they are all false, it still seems to be the case
that there are reasons why I believe these propositions.

If someone were to ask {\em me} why I believe that there are chairs, I
would probably answer ``because there are!  (Look, I'm sitting in
one!)''  It seems obviously true, just like the fact that the sky is
blue.  I have seen lots of chairs, and I can't have been confused or
deceived {\em every} time.

Nonetheless, Peter Unger and other philosophers (who we will call
`nihilists' or `eliminativists') say that I am mistaken.  They claim
that I have not in fact seen lots of chairs, though I may believe that
I have.  There are several different arguments by which nihilists seek
to establish that chairs (and other `ordinary things') do not exist;
we will examine some of these arguments below.  Having made these
arguments, however, the nihilists should also explain why we
nonetheless believe that there are chairs.  As we have seen above,
most people who hold false beliefs hold them for a reason.  It is
therefore very plausible that, even if beliefs like the above are
(necessarily) false, the people who hold them have reasons for doing
so.  Just as we explained why someone might believe that there are
ghosts, so the nihilist should identify the reason (or reasons) why so
many of us believe that there are chairs.

\subsection{Why bother?}
I believe that a metaphysical thesis that involves denying the
existence of ordinary things like chairs should include an explanation
as to why most people nonetheless believe that there are chairs (and
other ordinary things).  But why should I demand this of a
metaphysical theory?  Is it a reasonable request?

As an analogy, imagine a philosopher who holds some version of {\em
  physicalism} and claims that the physical world is all that exists.
One apparent difficulty for this sort of view is that it seems
ill-equipped to explain color phenomena.  If the philosopher were to
describe an object in a `physical vocabulary', we might find that the
color has been in some way left out.  We may be unable to determine
from the `physical description' what color the object is.  The colors
of objects may not be included in this philosopher's description of
the world.  Should this philosopher conclude that objects aren't
actually colored?

This philosopher could make a rather bold claim here.  She could say
that the notion of color is entirely illusory.  If we believe that we
see colors, she may tell us we are wrong.  When we think that
something is colored, we are mistaken.  If we think that an apple is
red, we have a false belief.  She might claim that color does not pose
a difficulty for her view, because humans do not experience `color'.

This, as I said, is a rather bold claim.  It seems simply true that we
see colors and that the apple looks red.  If a philosopher were to
deny these things, I would have difficulty understanding what she
meant.  This is not to say she is {\em wrong}; I have no argument
proving that her thesis is false.  But the claim that humans do not
experience color seems bizarre and unmotivated.  Fortunately I do not
know of anyone who actually holds this view.

Our imagined philosopher might make a less bold claim.  She might
instead claim that color is one of those things that are `subjective'
rather than `objective' or `absolute' features of the world.  A
subjective feature of the world is a feature that is present only
because we (or some other being) exists to experience it:

\begin{squote}
Whatever is due only to us and to our own ways of responding to and
interacting with the world does not reflect or correspond to anything
present in the world as it is independently of us.  The aim of an
``absolute'' conception, then, is to form a description of the way the
world is, not just independently of its being believed to be that way,
but independently, too, of all the ways in which it happens to present
itself to us human beings from our particular standpoint within
it\,\ldots\,[So we] form some conception of that independent reality
and come to understand parts or aspects of our original conception of
the world as not representing it as it is.  If we see them as products
or reflections of something peculiar to human experience or to the
human perspective on the universe, we assign them a merely
``subjective'' or dependent status and eliminate them from our
conception of the world as it is independently of
us~\citep[30--31]{stroud2000a}.
\end{squote}

\begin{comment}
\section{Denials}
Every so often a philosopher will claim that some aspect of
what we take to be our world is somehow illusory, bogus, or simply
nonexistent.  This sort of denial will take various forms.  

One might claim that a certain phenomenon does indeed find expression
in the world, but that it is somehow subjective; without humans to
experience it, there would be no such phenomena.  Some philosophers
think colors are subjective in this way.

Or one might claim that some ordinary object of experience is actually
non-existent.  Peter van Inwagen claims that chairs do not exist.  He
recognizes, of course, that most of us believe that there are chairs
and think that we do talk and have beliefs about them; moreover, he
admits that when we say things like ``there is another chair
upstairs'' or ``there are five chairs in the meeting-room'' we often
say true things.  van Inwagen must therefore explain what we are
thinking and talking about, if not chairs.  In addition he must
explain {\em why} we believe there to be chairs.  When giving these
explanations, of course, he must make reference only to those things
that he \emph{does} take to exist.  We will look at his strategy more
closely in sections~\ref{paraphrase} and~\ref{inwagen}.

Finally, one might claim that some things are non-existent, and that
anyone who takes themselves to be thinking or talking about such a
thing is actually thinking or talking about nothing at all.  This is
the sort of denial I would make regarding the existence of ghosts.
van Inwagen, as we shall see, attempts to deny that chairs exist while
still holding propositions like ``there is another chair upstairs'' to
be true.  If, on the other hand, someone tells me ``there is a ghost
in the pantry'' I am perfectly happy to maintain that what they said
is simply false.  Few philosophers make denials of this sort about
``real or significant'' things, because the beliefs we have about such
things (tables, chairs, people, custard) are deeply integrated into
our daily lives; such a denial will render much of our everyday
discourse false, if not nonsensical.  Nonetheless Peter Unger does
attempt this sort of denial; we address his arguments in
sections~\ref{resolute} and~\ref{unger}.
\end{comment}

% Stroud quote above the comment, writing about the apparent subj/obj
% distinction

A philosopher who adheres to this distinction might claim that our
conception of the world as colored does not represent the world as it
is independently of us.  Colors, she would claim, are not objectively
real.  She allows, however, that they are subjectively real.  She
admits that people do see colors.  Because of our color vision, we
come to believe that the things we see are colored.  A philosopher who
denies the objective reality of color does not thereby ``deny that we
perceive many different colours or that we believe physical objects to
be coloured''~\citep[145]{stroud2000a}.  What this philosopher claims
is something to the effect that, while we see things {\em as} colored,
things are not {\em themselves} colored.  The red color of a tomato,
on this view, obtains only in our perception of the tomato; there is
nothing {\em in} the tomato that is the redness (other species may not
see the redness when they see the tomato).

The philosopher who is denying the objective reality of color does
``recognize the presence in the world of perceptions of and beliefs
about the colours of things''~\citep[199]{stroud2000a}.  The challenge
then is for her to explain why we do have these perceptions and
beliefs.  If she believes that only the world of physics is
objectively real, she must explain why we hold these beliefs, and she
must give this explanation in a manner that commits her only to the
existence of physical things.  If she claims that the world as
described by physics is the only world there is, then she must explain
why, in a world that contains only physical things, we come to believe
that there are colors and colored objects.

Again: if our physicalist philosopher admits that people believe that
they experience color, and admits that people believe that things are
colored, {\em then} she commits herself to explaining why we form
beliefs that are, according to her, false.  Here is the analogy with
metaphysicians like Peter Unger: {\em if} they admit that many of us
believe that there are chairs and other ordinary objects, then they
commit themselves to explaining why we form these false beliefs.  For
as we have seen, even false beliefs are generally held for a reason.

\subsection{Paraphrasing beliefs}
\label{paraphrase}
Peter Unger denies that chairs existence, and claims that, if we
believe that chairs exist, we are mistaken.  His task will be to
explain why we form these false beliefs.  But not all nihilistic
philosophers deny that we are, in fact, mistaken.  They deny that
there are any chairs, but maintain that beliefs like the following
might still be true:

\begin{itemize}
  \item There are two chairs in the next room.
  \item I own some very nice 17th-century chairs.
  \item Some chairs are heavier than some tables.
\end{itemize}

Peter van Inwagen is one of these philosophers.  He denies the
existence of tables, chairs, apples, and all other inanimate composite
objects (the definition of `composite' will be discussed below in
section~\ref{scq}).  He takes pains to make clear that his denial of
these things is not a relegation of tables and chairs to `subjective
reality'.  He wants to claim that such things do not exist in any way,
subjective or objective:
\begin{squote}
I want to do what I can to disown a certain apparently almost
irresistible characterization of my view, or of that part of my view
that pertains to inanimate objects.  Many philosophers, in
conversation and correspondence, have insisted, despite repeated
protests on my part, on describing my position in words like these:
``Van Inwagen says that tables are not real''; ``\ldots\,not true
objects''; ``\ldots\,not actually {\em things}''; ``\ldots\,not
substances''; ``\ldots\,not unified wholes''; ``\ldots\,nothing more
than collections of particles.''  These are words that darken counsel.
They are, in fact, perfectly meaningless.  My position vis-\`{a}-vis
tables and other inanimate objects is simply that there {\em are}
none~(\citeyear[99]{inwagen1995}).
\end{squote}

Van Inwagen asserts, quite seriously, that ``there are no tables or
chairs or any other visible objects except living organisms''
(\citeyear[1]{inwagen1995}).  This is a somewhat more bold claim than
that of the physicalist's color.  She at least granted that we do see
colors, even if we don't actually see things that are (objectively)
colored.  If, as van Inwagen claims, the only {\em visible} objects
are living organisms, then we certainly can't {\em see} chairs at all.
But just as our physicalist could not claim that we don't believe that
there are colors, van Inwagen cannot deny that we at least {\em
  believe} that there are chairs.

Van Inwagen does not attempt to deny that we hold beliefs like those
listed above.  He admits that many of us hold beliefs that we would
express as ``there are two chairs in the next room'' or ``I bought a
new chair today''.  Indeed, he admits that such beliefs are often {\em
  true}: ``when people say things in the ordinary business of life by
uttering sentences that start `There are chairs\,\ldots ' or `There
are stars\,\ldots ', they very often say things that are literally
true''~(\citeyear[102]{inwagen1995}).  Van Inwagen, when denying that
we have beliefs about chairs, appears to maintain that the beliefs
that we (erroneously) take to be about chairs are not, in fact,
beliefs about chairs.  If a belief expressed as ``that is a fine
chair'' was actually about a chair, then it could only be true if
there was at least one chair (a fine one).  But van Inwagen denies
that there is at least one chair, but nonetheless says that such a
belief might be true.  He accordingly recognizes the need to explain
what our beliefs really are about.  If he explains what the {\em
  content} of our beliefs is, then he will also be able to explain
{\em why} we hold such beliefs.

I will examine van Inwagen's arguments in section~\ref{inwagen}.
First, however, I want to discuss Unger's nihilism.  As mentioned
above, he does not attempt to maintain that our beliefs concerning
chairs are true.  He claims that any beliefs of the sorts listed above
are false, and necessarily so.  But we who do believe that there are
chairs---and that our beliefs concerning them are often true---may
reply that, even if such beliefs were false, there must be some reason
why we hold these beliefs.  Even `irrational' beliefs such as that
ghosts exist may be seen to have an explanation.  People who believe
that there are ghosts do so for reasons.  There are many more people
who believe that there are chairs than there are people who believe in
ghosts.  I think it is reasonable, therefore, to ask that Unger give
some explanation of why we believe that there are chairs, if there are
no such things.
\ifstandalone
\end{spacing}
\bibliography{everything}
\bibliographystyle{ChicagoReedweb}
\fi
\end{document}
